# What is visualizeR?

`visualizeR` is an R package implementing a set of advanced visualization tools for forecast verification. It is fully integrated (yet independent) from the R climate data structures generated by the loading functions of the `climate4R` bundle, thus providing seamless integration with all steps of forecast data analysis, from data loading to the ECOMS-UDG (loadeR and loadeR.ECOMS packages, Cofiño et al. 2017), to data post-processing (transformeR package, Bedia and Iturbide 2016), downscaling and bias correction (downscaleR package, Bedia et al. 2017) and verification and visualization (visualizeR package, Frias et al. 2017). visualizeR only depends on the [transformeR](https://github.com/SantanderMetGroup/transformeR) capabilities for climata data manipulation.

The recommended installation procedure is to use the `install_github` command from the devtools R package. 

```r
devtools::install_github(c("SantanderMetGroup/transformeR", "SantanderMetGroup/visualizeR"))
```
Alternatively, you can download the sources from the [Releases Tab](https://github.com/SantanderMetGroup/visualizeR/releases)


**IMPORTANT:** Note that `transformeR` must be previously installed on your system ([installation info](https://github.com/SantanderMetGroup/downscaleR/wiki/installation))

---
To know more about the `climate4R` bundle and its components, read the paper: Cofiño et al, The ECOMS User Data Gateway: Towards seasonal forecast data provision and research reproducibility in the era of Climate Services. Climate Services, 2017, ISSN 2405-8807, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cliser.2017.07.001.
